-: Welcome back.
In this lecture, we are going to understand about
the core Kubernetes concept named Pod.
So, with Kubernetes, our core goal will be to deploy
our applications which are in the form of containers
on the Kubernetes worker nodes in Kubernetes cluster.
Kubernetes does not deploy these containers directly
on the worker nodes.
Container is encapsulated
into a Kubernetes object named Pod.
So a Pod is a single instance, often application.
So a Pod is the smallest object
that we can create in Kubernetes.
Pods generally have one-to-one relationship
with containers.
So, if you see here, we have one Pod in worker node one
And then we are having some amount
of traffic coming to that.
If our traffic keeps growing,
we are going to add new Pods
for scaling our application, like this.
So that it means is to scale up,
we create new Pods
and then to scale down, we delete the Pods.
So for our application, if the traffic keeps growing,
we need to scale our application in the form of Pod.
So now, we cannot have multiple containers
of same kind in a single Pods.
So this is one more important thing
which we need to understand.
So if you have a worker node one,
and then you have a Pod with Nginx
serving the purpose of static content
or it is acting as a proxy.
So now if your traffic keeps growing here,
you cannot scale your container image inside the Pod.
Always, whenever your traffic is growing,
you need to scale the Pods
instead of scaling the containers inside the Pods.
This is the wrong way, and this is the right way.
So two Nginx containers in a single Pods
serving same purposes, not recommended all in all.
So now, if you see,
we can also discuss about multi-container Pods.
So can we have multi-container Pods?
Can we have multiple containers in a single Pods?
Yes, but in exceptional cases.
Out of 100, 99% always one Pod will have one container.
And the one person cases are,
we can see now in our next slide.
So we can have multiple containers
in a single Pod provided they are not of same kind.
Example. In this Kubernetes cluster,
in this worker node, you have a Pod
and you have Nginx container serving the static content
or acting as a proxy.
And you have one more Nginx container
or whatever the container
which is called the helper container.
So they do the helper jobs here.
So what are these helper containers?
In Kubernetes stumps, we call that as sidecar containers.
So we can call them as data pullers,
data pushers or proxies.
So as data pullers, they pull data required
by the main container from some other service
in the network.
Or they push the data by collecting the information
from this Nginx main container.
Or they can even act as proxies.
Means like right static data to HTML files
using helper container and reusing main containers.
Or moreover, if you go into more
like our cloud technologies, usually,
the latest is like now you know the Istio,
and all these things came in.
So we will always have a sidecar container
which is nothing but the envoy proxy.
So in such cases, we use the sidecar container.
But all in all, 99% cases,
always Pod to container is a one-to-one relationship.
So now, when we are using these multi-container Pods,
we have the following advantage,
the two containers can easily communicate
with each other as they share the same network.
And they can also share the same storage space.
So multi-container Pods is a rare use case
and we will try to focus on core fundamentals,
which is nothing but one Pod to one container,
one-to-one relationship.
Now, in the next lecture, we are going to focus
on the Kubernetes Pods demo.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye.
Thank you.